# Top Game Reviewers
## Business Requirment
A game corporation would like to start an inventive program, to give the best reviewers early access to games and certain perks for giving such great reviews, because they have a specific set of skills that would be very useful in benefiting the platform. Initially, the stakeholder suggests to use 'votes helpful' as the metric to define top reviewers. Reviewers with high numbers of votes are more likely to be valuable for the platform. We also agree on 1000 would be an ideal threshold for the size of top reviewer cohort. The goal of this project is to find the top reviewer cohort, so we can understand the population a bit better, and use a more data-driven approach for targeting.
## Data Acquisition
With the goal in mind, I use SQL to query the database and joined two related tables, author_info table and review_info, together. The complied dataset is about a million rows with 22 columns. After adjusting some column name and data type, I bring the dataset local and use this Jupyter Notebook to create an interactive report within the tight deadline.
## Update evaluation metrics
In the analysis, I found over 90% of reviewers only published one review, including the reviewer with highest vote_helpful counts. They are one hit wonders, although their reviews go viral and are absolutely worth for investigation, they may not be the right targets for this incentive program, because one hit wonder is less likely to be replicable and what we want is to encourage constant behaviour for user engagement. I create a Pareto chart to prove the idea and discuss with the stakeholder about bringing 'review counts per reviewer' as the second metric for evaluation. 
## Interactive report 
In the Jupyter notebook ([click here](https://github.com/Lydialinnn/Top-Game-Reviewers/blob/main/Top_Game_Reviewers.ipynb)), I create sliders which enable the report users to do what if analysis (unfortunately the sliders are not visibale in Github). Stakeholders can adjust constrains of 'vote counts' and 'review counts per reviewer' based on their business knowledge and find the specific cohort size based on different combinations. What's more, the report dynamically visualizes further characteristics on the given cohort. From reviewer standpoint, it shows the distributions of number of games owned by reviewers and playtime per game reviewed. From review standpoint, the report illustrates character length of an average review and average comments per review has.
## Key takeaways:
I learnt a lot from the project! On business side, somethimes business requirements can be vague and it is quiet important to nail dowm to details. Also, thorugh the analysis,it's great to bring another appropriacte metric, with data and graph as backup, to help stakeholder achieve the business goal. On the techinical side, I leverage interact and widgets functions from ipywidgets library to create an interactive report, which is the cherry on the top for the report!
